[master < T540] Elasticsearch synchronization docs (#649)
memgraph/docs: mage/query-modules/python/elasticsearch-synchronization.md

sidebar_label: elasticsearch_synchronization
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import RunOnSubgraph from '../../templates/_run_on_subgraph.mdx';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>
);

<!--[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-elasticsearch_synchronization-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)]("") -->

## Abstract
**Elasticsearch** is a **text-processing platform** that can be used to enhance the capabilities of a graph database like Memgraph. It offers many fine-grained features useful when working on a text that is impossible to develop in databases. Data residing in Elasticsearch and Memgraph should be **synchronized** because otherwise, the whole system could be in an inconsistent state. Such a feature can be added inside Memgraph by using triggers: every time a new entity is added (node or edge) it gets indexed to the Elasticsearch index.

The following blog posts explain how Memgraph integrated Elasticsearch into its technology stack:

> <!--- [Elasticsearch](TODO add URL when blog post will be published)-->

Reviewer: Don't actually write this, just add the label like for the implementation

### `connect()`

The `connect()` method is used for connecting to the Elasticsearch instance using Memgraph. It uses a **basic authentication scheme with username, password and certificate**.

#### **Input**:
- `elastic_url: str` -> URL for connecting to the Elasticsearch instance.
- `ca_certs: str` -> Path to the certificate file.
- `elastic_user: str` -> The user trying to connect to Elasticsearch.
- `elastic_password: str` -> User's password for connecting to Elasticsearch.

#### **Output**:
- `connection_status: Dict[str, str]` -> Connection info

An example of how you can use this method to connect to the Elasticsearch instance:
```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.connect("https://localhost:9200", "~/elasticsearch-8.4.3/config/certs/http_ca.crt", <ELASTIC_USER>, <ELASTIC_PASSWORD>) YIELD *;
```

### `create_index()`
The method used for creating Elasticsearch indexes.

#### **Input**:
- `index_name: str` -> Name of the index that needs to be created.
- `schema_path: str` -> Path to the schema from where the index will be loaded.

> - `schema_parameters: Dict[str, Any]` ->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `schema_parameters: Dict[str, Any]`
```

Or add some kind of explanation?

  - `number_of_shards: int` -> Number of shards index will use.
  - `number_of_replicas: int` -> Number of replicas index will use.
  - `analyzer: str` -> Custom analyzer, which can be set to any legal Elasticsearch analyzer.

#### **Output**:

> - `message_status: Dict[str, str]` -> Output from the Elasticsearch instance whether the index was successfully created.
> Use the following query to create Elasticsearch indexes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `message_status: Dict[str, str]` -> Output from the Elasticsearch instance whether the index was successfully created.

Use the following query to create Elasticsearch indexes:
```

```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.create_index("edge_index",
"edge_index_path_schema.json", {analyzer: "mem_analyzer", index_type: "edge"}) YIELD *;
```

> to create Elasticsearch indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### `index_db()`

> The method is used to serialize all vertices and relationships in MemgraphDB to Elasticsearch instance. By setting the `thread_count, max_chunk_bytes, chunk_size, max_chunk_bytes and queue_size` parameters, it is possible to get a good performance spot when indexing large quantities of documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method is used to serialize all vertices and relationships in MemgraphDB to Elasticsearch instance. By setting the `thread_count`, `max_chunk_bytes`, `chunk_size`, `max_chunk_bytes` and `queue_size` parameters, it is possible to get a good performance spot when indexing large quantities of documents.
```

- `chunk_size: int` -> The number of docs in one chunk sent to Elasticsearch (default: 500).
- `max_chunk_bytes: int` -> The maximum size of the request in bytes (default: 100MB).
- `raise_on_error: bool` -> Raise `BulkIndexError` containing errors (as .errors) from the execution of the last chunk when some occur. By default, it's raised.
- `raise_on_exception: bool` -> If `False` then don’t propagate exceptions from call to bulk and just report the items that failed as failed.
- `max_retries: int` -> Maximum number of times a document will be retried when 429 is received, set to 0 (default) for no retries on 429.
- `initial_backoff: float` -> The number of seconds we should wait before the first retry. Any subsequent retries will be powers of `initial_backoff * 2**retry_number`
- `max_backoff: float` -> The maximum number of seconds a retry will wait.
- `yield_ok: float` -> If set to `False` will skip successful documents in the output.
- `thread_count: int` -> **Size of the threadpool** to use for the bulk requests.
- `queue_size: int` -> Size of the **task queue** between the **main thread (producing chunks to send) and the processing threads**.

> The method could be called in a following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method can be called in a following way:
```

```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.index_db("node_index", "edge_index", 5, 256, 104857600, True, False, 2, 2.0, 600.0, True, 2) YIELD *;
```

#### **Output**
- `number_of_nodes: int` -> Number of indexed nodes.
- `number_of_edges: int` -> Number of indexed edges.

### `reindex()`

> **Reindex all documents** that satisfy a given query from one index to another, potentially (if target_client is specified) on a different cluster. If you don’t specify the query you will reindex all the documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Reindex all documents** that satisfy a given query from one index to another, potentially (if `target_client` is specified) on a different cluster. If you don’t specify the query you will reindex all the documents.
```

#### **Input**

> - `updatatedObjects: List[Dict[str, Any]]` -> List of all objects that **were updated and then sent as arguments to this method** with the help of the "update trigger".

Reviewer: Why did you use quotes to write "update trigger"?

Author: Ah I though it was good but never mind, it can stay without quotes

> - `source_index: Union[str, List[str]])` -> Identifies **source index(or more of them)** from where documents need to be indexed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `source_index: Union[str, List[str]])` -> Identifies **source index (or more of them)** from where documents need to be indexed.
```

- `target_index: str` -> Identifies **target index** to where documents need to be indexed.
- `query: str` -> Query written as JSON.

> - `chunk_size: int` -> Number of docs in one chunk sent to es (default: 500).

Reviewer: sent to where? es?

Reviewer: Elasticsearch? :D please write whole words

Author: Yes yes Elasticsearch

- `scroll: str` -> Specifies how long **a consistent view of the index** should be maintained for scrolled search.

> - `op_type: Optional[str])` -> Explicit operation type. Defaults to ‘_index’. Data streams must be set to ‘create’. If not specified, will auto-detect if target_index is a data stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `op_type: Optional[str])` -> Explicit operation type. Defaults to `_index`. Data streams must be set to `create`. If not specified, will auto-detect if target_index is a data stream.
```

#### **Output**

> - `response: str` -> Number of documents matched by a query in the source_index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `response: str` -> Number of documents matched by a query in the `source_index`.
```

To reindex all documents from the `source_index` to the `destination_index`, use the following query:
```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.reindex("source_index", "destination_index", "{\"query\": {\"match_all\": {}}} ") YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `scan()`

> Fetches documents from the index specified by the index_name matched by the query. Supports pagination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches documents from the index specified by the `index_name` matched by the query. Supports pagination.
```

#### **Input**
- `index_name: str` -> Name of the index.
- `query: str` -> Query written as JSON.
- `scroll: int` -> Specifies how long **a consistent view** of the index should be maintained for scrolled search.
- `raise_on_error: bool` -> Raises an exception (`ScanError`) if an error is encountered (some shards fail to execute). By default, it's raised.

> - `preserve_order: bool` -> Don’t set the search_type to scan - this will cause the scroll to paginate with preserving the order. Note that this can be an extremely expensive operation and can easily lead to unpredictable results, use it with caution.

Reviewer: Where do I set this search_type? 

Maybe first explain what this does, then give the recommendations and notes.

-> Preserves the order of SOMETHING. Don's use with search_type set to scan because the scroll will paginate with preserving the order. 

Something like that, i have no idea what any of this means but 1. give a description of the argument 2. clarify the search_type (i can't find it anywhere in this page except here)

> - `size: int` -> Size (per shard) of the batch send at each iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `size: int` -> Size (per shard) of the batch sent at each iteration.
```

> - `from: int` -> Starting document offset. By default, you cannot page through more than 10,000 hits using the from and size parameters. To page through more hits, use the search_after parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `from: int` -> Starting document offset. By default, you cannot page through more than 10,000 hits using the `from` and size parameters. To page through more hits, use the `search_after` parameter.
```

- `request_timeout: mgp.Nullable[float]` -> Explicit timeout for each call to scan.
- `clear_scroll: bool` -> Explicitly calls delete on the scroll id via the clear scroll API at the end of the method on completion or error, defaults to true.

#### **Output**
- `documents: List[Dict[str, str]]` -> List of all items matched by the specific query.

> An example scan query that makes use of all parameters can be written as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example scan query that makes use of all parameters:
```

---
id: elasticsearch-synchronization
title: elasticsearch_synchronization
sidebar_label: elasticsearch_synchronization
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import RunOnSubgraph from '../../templates/_run_on_subgraph.mdx';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>

> );

Reviewer: Why do you need this?

Author: Other modules have it so I copied it

Reviewer: I have no idea what it does :D let's leave it be :D :D

<!--[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-elasticsearch_synchronization-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)]("") -->

## Abstract
**Elasticsearch** is a **text-processing platform** that can be used to enhance the capabilities of a graph database like Memgraph. It offers many fine-grained features useful when working on a text that is impossible to develop in databases. Data residing in Elasticsearch and Memgraph should be **synchronized** because otherwise, the whole system could be in an inconsistent state. Such a feature can be added inside Memgraph by using triggers: every time a new entity is added (node or edge) it gets indexed to the Elasticsearch index.

### Blog Posts

The following blog posts explain how Memgraph integrated Elasticsearch into its technology stack:

> <!--- [Elasticsearch](TODO add URL when blog post will be published)-->

Reviewer: Add this as a label, look at this page for an example (the purple label about blog posts -> https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/reference-guide/replication)

Author: Will do it once the blog post is published

> ### About the query module

Reviewer: I would remove this title, as well as Usage title

> In this module you can find support for the following interesting features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module supports the following features:
```

- creating **Elasticsearch index** from Memgraph clients using Cypher
- **indexing all data** inside Memgraph to Elasticsearch indexes
- managing Elasticsearch **authentication** in a secure way
- indexing entities (nodes and edges) as they are being inserted into the database **without reindexing old data**
- **scanning and searching documents** from Elasticsearch indexes using **Query DSL**
- reindexing existing documents from Elasticsearch

### Usage

> The following procedure is expected when using **Elasticsearch synchronization modules**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using **Elasticsearch synchronization modules**:
```

> - start Elasticsearch instance and store securely **username, password, a path to the certificate file and instance's URL**
> - connect to the instance by calling the `connect` method
> - use the `create_index` method to create Elasticsearch indexes for nodes and edges
> - index all entities inside the database using the `index_db` method
> - check that documents were indexed correctly using the `scan` or `search` method

Reviewer: Are these steps? If yes, numerate them

```suggestion
- start Elasticsearch instance and securely store **username, password, and path to the certificate file and instance's URL**
- connect to the instance by calling the `connect` method
- use the `create_index` method to create Elasticsearch indexes for nodes and edges
- index all entities inside the database using the `index_db` method
- check that documents were indexed correctly using the `scan` or `search` method
```

## Procedures

<RunOnSubgraph/>

> The module for synchronizing Elasticsearch with Memgraph is organized as a **stateful** module where it is expected that the user performs a sequence of operations using the managed secure connection to Elasticsearch. The user can **use indexes that already exist** inside Elasticsearch but can also choose **to create new ones with custom schema**. Indexing can be performed in two ways:
> 1. index all data residing inside the database
> 2. **incrementally index entities** as they get inserted into the database by using triggers. Find out more about triggers [here](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/set-up-triggers) and [here](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/reference-guide/triggers) but essentially triggers offer us a way of executing a specific procedure upon receiving some event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module for synchronizing Elasticsearch with Memgraph is organized as a **stateful** module where it is expected that the user performs a sequence of operations using a managed secure connection to Elasticsearch. The user can **use indexes that already exist** inside Elasticsearch but can also choose **to create new ones with custom schema**. Indexing can be performed in two ways:
1. **index all data** residing inside the database
2. **incrementally index entities** as they get inserted into the database by using triggers. Find more information about triggers in the [reference guide](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/reference-guide/triggers) or check how to [set up triggers](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/how-to-guides/set-up-triggers). Essentially, triggers offer a way of executing a specific procedure upon some event.
```

> ### `connect()`

Reviewer: you need arguments in function signature

Author: I think it is better like this because there are many arguments so it will be messy + there are already listed below

> The `Connect()` method is used so the user could get connected to the Elasticsearch instance using Memgraph. It uses a **basic authentication scheme with username, password and certificate**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `connect()` method is used for connecting to the Elasticsearch instance using Memgraph. It uses a **basic authentication scheme with username, password and certificate**.
```

#### **Input**:
- `elastic_url: str` -> URL for connecting to the Elasticsearch instance.
- `ca_certs: str` -> Path to the certificate file.
- `elastic_user: str` -> The user trying to connect to Elasticsearch.
- `elastic_password: str` -> User's password for connecting to Elasticsearch.

#### **Output**:
- `connection_status: Dict[str, str]` -> Connection info

An example of how you can use this method to connect to the Elasticsearch instance:
```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.connect("https://localhost:9200", "~/elasticsearch-8.4.3/config/certs/http_ca.crt", <ELASTIC_USER>, <ELASTIC_PASSWORD>) YIELD *;
```

### `create_index()`

> A method that can be used for creating Elasticsearch indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method used for creating Elasticsearch indexes.
```

#### **Input**:
- `index_name: str` -> Name of the index that needs to be created.

> - `schema_path: str` -> Path to the schema from where it will be loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `schema_path: str` -> Path to the schema from where the index will be loaded.
```

- `schema_parameters: Dict[str, Any]` ->
  - `number_of_shards: int` -> Number of shards index will use.
  - `number_of_replicas: int` -> Number of replicas index will use.
  - `analyzer: str` -> Custom analyzer, which can be set to any legal Elasticsearch analyzer.

#### **Output**:
- `message_status: Dict[str, str]` -> Output from the Elasticsearch instance whether the index was successfully created.

> You can call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following query to create Elasticsearch indexes:
```

> You can call
> ```
> CALL elastic_search_serialization.create_index("edge_index",
> "edge_index_path_schema.json", {analyzer: "mem_analyzer", index_type: "edge"}) YIELD *;
> ```
> to create Elasticsearch indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following query to create Elasticsearch indexes:
```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.create_index("edge_index",
"edge_index_path_schema.json", {analyzer: "mem_analyzer", index_type: "edge"}) YIELD *;
```
```

> to create Elasticsearch indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- `chunk_size: int` -> The number of docs in one chunk sent to Elasticsearch (default: 500).
- `max_chunk_bytes: int` -> The maximum size of the request in bytes (default: 100MB).
- `raise_on_error: bool` -> Raise `BulkIndexError` containing errors (as .errors) from the execution of the last chunk when some occur. By default, it's raised.
- `raise_on_exception: bool` -> If `False` then don’t propagate exceptions from call to bulk and just report the items that failed as failed.
- `max_retries: int` -> Maximum number of times a document will be retried when 429 is received, set to 0 (default) for no retries on 429.
- `initial_backoff: float` -> The number of seconds we should wait before the first retry. Any subsequent retries will be powers of `initial_backoff * 2**retry_number`
- `max_backoff: float` -> The maximum number of seconds a retry will wait.
- `yield_ok: float` -> If set to `False` will skip successful documents in the output.
- `thread_count: int` -> **Size of the threadpool** to use for the bulk requests.
- `queue_size: int` -> Size of the **task queue** between the **main thread (producing chunks to send) and the processing threads**.

> The method could be called in a following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method can be called in a following way:
```

- `size: int` -> Size (per shard) of the batch send at each iteration.
- `from: int` -> Starting document offset. By default, you cannot page through more than 10,000 hits using the from and size parameters. To page through more hits, use the search_after parameter.
- `request_timeout: mgp.Nullable[float]` -> Explicit timeout for each call to scan.
- `clear_scroll: bool` -> Explicitly calls delete on the scroll id via the clear scroll API at the end of the method on completion or error, defaults to true.

#### **Output**
- `documents: List[Dict[str, str]]` -> List of all items matched by the specific query.

An example scan query that makes use of all parameters can be written as:
```
CALL elastic_search_serialization.scan("edge_index", "{\"query\": {\"match_all\": {}}}", "5m", false, false, 100, 0, 2.0, False) YIELD *;
```

### `search()`
Searches for all documents by specifying query and index. It is the preferred method to be used before the `scan()` method because of the possibility to use aggregations.

> ### **Input**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Input**
```

CALL elastic_search_serialization.index_db("docs_nodes", "docs_edges", 4) YIELD *;
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="scan">

```cypher
CALL elastic_search_serialization.scan("docs_nodes", "{\"query\": {\"match_all\": {}}}", "5m", false, false, 100, 0, 2.0, False) YIELD *;
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="scan-results">

  <img src={require('../../data/query-modules/python/elasticsearch-synchronization/scan_results.png').default}/>

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="trigger">

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER elastic_search_create
ON CREATE AFTER COMMIT EXECUTE
CALL elastic_search_serialization.index(createdObjects, "docs_nodes", "docs_edges") YIELD * RETURN *;
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="insert-new">

```cypher
CREATE (n7 {name: "n7"});
MATCH (n6 {name: "n6"}), (n7 {name: "n7"})
CREATE (n6)-[:NEW_CONNECTION {edge_property: "docs"}]->(n7);
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="search">

```cypher
CALL elastic_search_serialization.search("docs_nodes",  "{\"match_all\": {}}", 1000, 0) YIELD *;
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="search-results">

  <img src={require('../../data/query-modules/python/elasticsearch-synchronization/trigger_results.png').default}/>

  </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Unfortunately this is not very user-friendly due to the number of steps :/ I think the better course of action would be to use headlines

Author: I merged few steps, so I think it is better now :)
